# FreedomOfPanorama
This is a repository of various codes, data, and methodological notes used in a research article on Freedom of Panorama.

## Doing text mining with Google News and Europresse

Applying the same methods to contemporary press seems apparently easier. Given the texts have always been digital, there is no issue of optical character recognition. The coverage of news aggregator appears much more extensive than that of digital libraries. We have used mainly two of these meta-sources: Google News and, for the French corpus, Europresse (a proprietary database accessible through university credentials).

Yet, extensive does not mean comprehensive or, even, representative. We have been faced with three regular biases:
*The selection of the aggregator remains opaque. On the whole, Europresse is more documented on regional sources that are not always well indexed on the web whereas Google News achieves a better coverage of pure player. Beyond theses leading unofficial editorial policies numerous seemingly arbitrary choices appear to be made. 
*The results are not always consistent. While we were very cautious to consult Google News in a private mode in order to avoid activating customized search processes, there were still regular variations in the size and content of the selection. Apparently, that’s a regular feature of search engines: each query can be processed by different servers; while the first pages are generally stable, the content of “deeper” pages heavily depends on the indexed database available to the targeted server. Older results seems to “disappear” from Google News : while freedom of panorama is clearly an emerging issues, we have spotted several articles published before 2015 that did not make their way.
*The selection is “contaminated” by irrelevant results. Google News frequently add texts on allegedly “close” topic, even if the expression “Freedom of Panorama” is not explicitly stated. Given the analysis is mostly stylistic, theses results have been removed from our corpora. Besides, the crawling algorithm takes the original web page as a whole, which not only include the main article but also comments and news feeds. 

On most of theses methodological aspects, Europresse fares better than Google News. Yet, Google News still has a significant advantage: it is actually read by millions of europeans, who use the aggregator as their prime portal to media and view the evolving news agenda from theses (somewhat distorted) lenses. If there's a leading (rather than comprehensive) panorama of the public sphere debate surrounding Freedom of panorama it is undisputedly on Google News. This de facto concentration of news reading practices has stirred numerous economic and legal debate. The June 2016 EU consultation on Freedom of panorama was therefore paired with a consultation on granting neighboring rights to publishers and, possibly, restraining secondary providers the right to link or to quote news.

Therefore, each corpus will be considered on different ground. While Europresse maps not so imperfectly the general dynamics of French news, Google News is chiefly representative of Google News (that is of the main digital platform through which readers discover news). Paradoxically enough, even in this tautological approach, Google News is not completely reliable: as we showed it previously, results change and disappear from time to time and are potentially generated in a different way from one consultation to another. All theses biases remain nevertheless far more limited than if we used Google News a valid representation of all news.

